2001 World Series championship series, Arizona Diamondbacks New York Luis Gonzalez. This was the third World Series to end in this way after   and  . wild card team until  . Far West state other than California.Randy Johnson and Curt Schilling were the co-MVPs of the 2001 World Series, combining for a 4–0 record and a 1.40 ERA and striking out 45 Yankees in   innings. September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, representing a remarkable boost in morale for the fatigued city. Arizona captured the Series, four games to three, thereby dethroning the defending World Champions and earning their first title. Randy Johnson, bloop single Luis Gonzalez, Detroit Tigers Mickey Lolich in  .The home team won every game in the Series. This had only happened twice before, in   and  ; in both cases, the Minnesota Twins won the Series. This Series was the subject of an HBO documentary Nine Innings from Ground Zero in 2004. Kansas City Royals.== work stoppage).== Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix, Arizona Luis Gonzalez hit a two-run home run in the third and scored twice. Although the Yankees scored one run on one hit in the first, they were only able to get two more hits after that and held hitless after the fourth inning.== Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix, Arizona Randy Johnson. Matt Williams hit a three-run homer in the seventh off Yankee starter Andy Pettitte as Arizona won 4–0 and took a commanding two games to none lead as the Series headed to New York City.==  fleece, with a bulletproof vest underneath, President Bush tosses out the ceremonial first pitch.]] Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New YorkThe game was opened in New York by President George W. Bush, who threw out the ceremonial first pitch, a strike to Yankees backup catcher Todd Greene. Bush became the first sitting President to throw out a World Series first pitch since Dwight D. Eisenhower in  . He also threw it from the mound where the pitcher would stand (unlike most ceremonial first pitches which are from in front of the mound) and threw it for a strike. Chants of "U-S-A! cheer|U-S-A, U-S-A" rang throughout Yankee Stadium. Yankees starter Roger Clemens allowed only three hits and struck out nine in seven innings of work.  Yankees closer Mariano Rivera pitched two innings for the save. Scott Brosius broke a sixth inning tie with an RBI single to left.== Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York Paul ONeill Bernie Williams struck out, Tino Martinez hit a two-run home run on the first pitch he saw from Kim over the right-center field wall, tying the game 3–3. Brenly stuck with his closer as the game headed into extra innings. When the scoreboard clock in Yankee Stadium passed midnight, World Series play in November began, with the message on the scoreboard "Welcome to November Baseball". Derek Jeterhit an opposite field walk-off home run on a 3–2 pitch count from Kim. This walk-off home run gave the Yankees a 4–3 victory and tied the Series at two, making Jeter the first player to hit a November home run and earning him the tongue-in-cheek nickname of "Derek Jeter|Mr. November".  == Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York Paul ONeill (retiring after the series) was serenaded by Yankees fans chanting his name in unison.== Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix, Arizona Mike Stanton kept them scoreless for the rest of the game. They hit six doubles and Danny Bautista went 3-for-4 with five RBIs. They set a World Series record with 22 hits and handed New York its most lopsided loss in 293 postseason games. The 15–2 win evened the series at three games apiece and set up a Game 7 for the ages between Roger Clemens and Curt Schilling, again pitching on three days rest.==:See footnote  Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix, ArizonaIt was a matchup of two twenty-game winners in the Series finale that would crown a new champion. Clemens at 39 years old became the oldest Game 7 starter ever. Schilling had already started two games of the Series and pitched his 300th inning of the season on just three days rest. The two aces matched each other inning by inning and after seven full, the game was tied at 1–1. The Diamondbacks scored first in the sixth inning with a Steve Finley single and a Danny Bautista double (Bautista would be called out at third base). The Yankees responded with an RBI single from Tino Martinez, which drove in Derek Jeter. Brenly stayed with Schilling into the eighth, and the move backfired as Alfonso Soriano hit a solo home run on an 0–2 pitch. After Schilling got one out, he gave up a single to David Justice, and he left the game trailing 2–1. Brenly brought in Miguel Batista to get out Derek Jeter and then in an unconventional move, brought in the previous nights starter Randy Johnson, who had thrown 104 pitches, in relief to keep it a one-run game. It proved to be a smart move, as Johnson retired all four Yankees he faced.With the Yankees ahead 2–1 in the bottom of the eighth, manager Joe Torre turned the game over to his ace closer Mariano Rivera for a two-inning save. Rivera was one of the strongest closers in the game, and had pitched brilliantly throughout the postseason up to that point. Rivera struck out the side in the eighth, including Arizonas sluggers Luis Gonzalez, Matt Williams, and Danny Bautista, which lowered his ERA in the postseason to a major league-best of 0.70. Although he was sharp in the eighth, this game would end in the third ninth-inning comeback of the Series. Luis Gonzalez lofted a soft single over the drawn-in Derek Jeter that barely reached the outfield grass, plating Jay Bell with the winning run. This ended New Yorks bid for a fourth consecutive title and brought Arizona its first championship in just its fourth year of existence, making the Diamondbacks the fastest expansion team to win a World Series, as well as first major professional sports championship for the state of Arizona. This was the first time since   that the home team won in all seven games of a World Series. Best Postseason Game of the Decade (2000–2009).2001 World Series (4–3): Arizona Diamondbacks (N.L.) over New York Yankees (A.L.) Fox carried Yankees broadcaster). NBC broadcast Fox Family ESPN Radio provided national radio coverage for the fourth consecutive year, with Jon Miller and Joe Morgan calling the action. KTAR in WABC in John Sterling Michael Kay WCBS picked up radio rights to the Yankees. It was Kay who announced Derek Jeters game-winning home run in Game 4 of the series and subsequently anointed him as "Mr. November". Florida Marlins Philadelphia Phillies, in six games.  San Francisco Giants in 2009.  Four Diamondbacks from 2001 are still active, Rod Barajas (now with the Los Angeles Dodgers), Craig Counsell (now with the Milwaukee Brewers), Miguel Batista (now with the New York Mets), and Lyle Overbay (returned to the Diamondbacks in August 2011), and only Derek Jeter, Mariano Rivera, and Jorge Posada remain from the 2001 AL Champion Yankees, as of 2011.From 2004 through 2007, the Yankees misfortune in the postseason continued, with the team losing the ALCS to the Boston Red Sox in 2004, the ALDS to Anaheim in 2005, the ALDS to Detroit in 2006, and the ALDS to Cleveland in 2007. Joe Torres contract was allowed to expire and he was replaced by Joe Girardi in 2008, a season in which the Yankees would miss the playoffs for the first time since 1993.Buster Olney, who covered the Yankees for the New York Times before joining ESPN, would write a book titled The Last Night of the Yankee Dynasty. The book is a play by play account of Game 7 in addition to stories about key players, executives, and moments from the 1996–2001 dynasty. In a 2005 reprinting, Olney included a new epologue covering the aftermath of the 2001 World Series up to the Boston Red Sox epic comeback from down 3–0 in the 2004 ALCS. four major professional sports.On October 11, 2005 A&E Home Video released the New York Yankees Fall Classic Collectors Edition (1996–2001) DVD set. Game 4 of the 2001 World Series is included in the set. On April 29, 2008 The Arizona Diamondbacks 2001 World Series DVD set was released. All seven games are included.   * * * *  