Aage Bohr Danish nuclear nuclear physicist Nobel laureate, Nobel laureate Niels Bohr.Bohr was born in Copenhagen in 1922, and grew up surrounded by physicists such as Wolfgang Pauli and Werner Heisenberg, who were working with his father at the Institute for Theoretical Physics (now the Niels Bohr Institute) at the University of Copenhagen.   escaped to Sweden with his family, later travelling to London and on to work on the Manhattan Project. During this time, Aage Bohr travelled with his father, acting as his assistant and secretary.The Bohrs returned to Denmark in 1945, and Aage returned to University, graduating with a masters degree in 1946, with a thesis concerned with some aspects of atomic stopping problems.  Following graduation, he became an associate at the Niels Bohr Institute. Princeton in early 1948, and later at Columbia University from January 1949 to August 1950. While in the US, Bohr married Marietta Soffer; the couple had three children, Vilhelm, Tomas and Margrethe.Bohr became a professor at the University of Copenhagen in 1956, and, following his fathers death in 1962, succeeded him as director of the Niels Bohr Institute, a position he held until 1970.  He was also a member of the board of the Nordic Institute for Theoretical Physics (Nordita) from its inception in 1957, becoming its director in 1975.== atomic nucleus liquid drop shell model, magic numbers.  However, there were also properties which could not be explained, including the non-spherical distribution of charge in certain nuclei.James Rainwater of Columbia University suggested a model of the nucleus which could explain a non-spherical charge distribution in a 1950 paper. Bohr, visiting Columbia at the time, had independently come up with the same idea, and submitted a paper for publication about a month after Rainwaters which discussed the same problem along more general lines. Bohr later developed the idea further, in 1951 publishing a paper which comprehensively treated the relationship between oscillations of the surface of the nucleus and the movement of the individual nucleons. Ben Mottelson to compare the theoretical work with experimental data. In three papers which were published in 1952-53, Bohr and Mottelson demonstrated close agreement between theory and experiment, for example showing that the energy levels of certain nuclei could be described by a rotation spectrum.  This work stimulated new theoretical and experimental studies.  As a result, he won the Atoms for Peace Award in 1969.Bohr, Mottelson and Rainwater were jointly awarded the 1975 Nobel Prize in Physics "for the discovery of the connection between collective motion and particle motion in atomic nuclei and the development of the theory of the structure of the atomic nucleus based on this connection".   Bohr and Mottelson continued to work together, publishing a two-volume monograph, Nuclear Structure. The first volume, Single-Particle Motion, appeared in 1969, and the second volume, Nuclear Deformations, in 1975.  *  *  *  - Daily Telegraph obituary*    