AardwolfThe aardwolf (Proteles cristata) is a small,  s and can eat more than 200,000 in a single night, using its long, sticky tongue to collect them.The aardwolf is the only surviving species of the subfamily Protelinae. Two subspecies are recognized: Proteles cristatus cristatus of  . 8 Jan. 2007   It is usually placed in the Hyaenidae, though formerly separated into the family Protelidae. The aardwolf lives in the scrublands of eastern and southern Africa. These are the areas of land covered with stunted trees or shrubs. The aardwolf hides in a burrow during the day and comes out at night to search for food. Its diet almost completely consists of termites, other insect larvae and carrion.    .  Note ability to rotate ear.]]The aardwolf looks somewhat like a very small Striped Hyena. They have a more slender snout|muzzle, sharper ears utilized in the hunt for harvester termites, black vertical stripes on a coat of yellowish fur, and a long, distinct mane down the middle line of the neck and back, which is raised during a confrontation to make the aardwolf appear bigger. It is 55&ndash;80&nbsp;cm (22&ndash;31&nbsp;in) long, excluding its bushy 20&ndash;30&nbsp;cm (8&ndash;12&nbsp;in) tail, stands about 40&ndash;50&nbsp;cm (16&ndash;20&nbsp;in) at the shoulder, and weighs between 9 and 14&nbsp;kg (20&ndash;31&nbsp;lb).  Its front feet have 5 toes, unlike other hyenas which have four toes.  Its teeth and skull are similar to that of the hyena, although the cheek teeth are specialised for eating insects, and its tongue for licking them up.  As the aardwolf ages, it will normally lose some of its teeth, though this has little impact on their feeding habits due to the soft nature of the insects they consume.  It has two glands at the rear that secrete a musky fluid for marking territory and communicating with other aardwolves. .]]The aardwolf lives on open, dry plains and bushland,  avoiding mountainous areas. Due to its specific food requirements, the animal is only found in regions where termites of the family Hodotermitidae occur. Termites of this family depend on dead and withered grass and are most populous in heavily grazed grasslands and savannahs, including arable land|farmland. For most of the year, aardwolves spend time in shared territories consisting of up to a dozen dens which are occupied for six weeks at a time. There are two distinct populations: one in Southern Africa, and another in East and Northeast Africa. The species does not occur in the intermediary miombo forests. , Texas]] porcupines or springhares, despite being capable of creating their own. By night, an aardwolf can consume up to 200,000 harvester termites using its sticky, long tongue.  They take special care not to destroy the termite mound or consume the entire colony, which ensures that the termites can rebuild and provide a continuous supply of food. They will often memorise the location of such nests and return to them to save the trouble of finding a new one. They are also known to feed on other insects, larvae, and eggs, and occasionally small mammals and birds. Unlike other hyenas, aardwolves do not scavenge or kill larger animals. lifespan of up to 15 years when in captivity (animal)|captivity.Agriculture may create a negative impact on their population due to use of poisons by farmers.  They are often considered useful, non-dangerous animals by farmers. However, in some areas the aardwolf is hunted for its fur. Encounters with dogs are another threat.     *  *  *