AbbahuBerakhot ii.4b; Gittin 44b; Bava Batra 39a). He frequently made pilgrimages to Tiberias, even after he had become well known as rector of the Caesarean Academy (Yer. Shab viii.11a; Yer. Pesahim x.37c).Abbahu was an authority on weights and measures (  to vii.18).Being wise, handsome, and wealthy (Bava Metzia 84a; Yer. Bava Metzia iv.9d), Abbahu became not only popular with his coreligionists, but also influential with the proconsular government (Hagigah 14a; Ketubot 17a). On one occasion, when his senior colleagues, Ḥiyya b. Abba, Rav Ammi, and Assi, had punished a certain woman, and feared the wrath of the proconsul, Abbahu was deputed to intercede for them. He had, however, anticipated the rabbis request, and wrote them that he had appeased the informers but not the accuser. The witty enigmatic letter describing this incident, preserved in the Talmud (Yer. Meg. iii.74a), is in the main pure Hebrew, and even includes Hebrew translations of Greek proper names, to avoid the danger of possible exposure should the letter have fallen into the hands of enemies and informers (compare Eruvin 53b).  Nazir vii.56a; Berakhot  viii.12a; Yer. Shab. iii.5c). Berakhot  viii.12a; Yer. Beitzah, i.60d). On the other hand, where circumstances required it, he did not spare even the princes of his people (Yer. Avodah Zarah, i.39b). Where, however, the rigorous exposition of laws worked hardship on the masses, he did not scruple to modify the decisions of his colleagues for the benefit of the community (Shabbat 134b; Yer. Shabbat xvii.16b; Yer. Moed Katan i.80b). As for himself, he was very strict in the observance of the laws. On one occasion he ordered some Samaritan wine, but subsequently learning that there were no longer any strict observers of the dietary laws among the Samaritans, with the assistance of his colleagues, Ḥiyya b. Abba, Rav Ammi, and Rav Assi, he investigated the report, and, ascertaining it to be well founded, did not hesitate to declare the Samaritans, for all ritualistic purposes, Gentiles (Yer. Avodah Zarah, v. 44d; Hullin 6a).R. Abbahus chief characteristic seems to have been modesty. While lecturing in different towns, he met R. Ḥiyya b. Abba, who was lecturing on intricate halakic themes. As Abbahu delivered popular sermons, the masses naturally crowded to hear him, and deserted the halakist. At this apparent slight, R. Ḥiyya manifested chagrin, and R. Abbahu hastened to comfort him by comparing himself to the pedler of glittering fineries that always attracted the eyes of the masses, while his rival was a trader in precious stones, the virtues and values of which were appreciated only by the connoisseur. This speech not having the desired effect, R. Abbahu showed special respect for his slighted colleague by following him for the remainder of that day. "What," said Abbahu, "is my modesty as compared with that of R. Abba of Acre (Acco), who does not even remonstrate with his interpreter for interpolating his own comments in the lecturers expositions." When his wife reported to him that his interpreters wife had boasted of her own husbands greatness, R. Abbahu simply said, "What difference does it make which of us is really the greater, so long as through both of us heaven is glorified?" (Sotah, 40a). His principle of life he expressed in the maxim, R. Abbahu, though eminent as a halakist, was more distinguished as a   48b). These controversies, though forced on him, provoked resentment, and it is even related that his physician, Jacob the Schismatic (Minaah), was slowly poisoning him, but R. Ammi and R. Assi discovered the crime in time (Av. Zarah, 28a).Abbahu had two sons, Zeira and Ḥanina. Some writers ascribe to him a third son, Abimi (Bacher, Ag. Pal. Amor.). Abbahu sent Ḥanina to the academy at   14:11) that I have sent thee off to Tiberias? Study must precede practice" (Yer. Pesahim  iii.30b). Abbahu left behind him a number of disciples, the most prominent among whom were the leaders of the 4th amoraic generation, R. Jonah and R. Jose. At Abbahus death the mourning was so great that it was said, "Even the statues of Cæsarea shed tears" (Moed Katan 25b; Yer. Av. Zarah, iii.42c). Babylonian halakist, contemporary of Samuel and Anan (Eruvin 74a), and brother of Minyamin (Benjamin) b. Ihi. While this Abbahu repeatedly applied to Samuel for information, Samuel in return learned many Halakot from him (Naz. 24b; Bava Metzia 14a, 75a)."When does your Messiah come?" a   lx.2]," (Sanhedrin  99a). A Christian came to Abbahu with the quibbling question: "How could your God in His priestly holiness bury Moses without providing for purificatory rites, yet oceans are declared insufficient?" (Isaiah 40:12). "Why," said Abbahu, "does it not say, The Lord cometh with fire?" (Isaiah 64:15). "Fire is the true element of purification, according to   7:23), since we read, All the nations are as nothing before Him?" (Isaiah 40:17), to which Abbahu replied: "Do we not read of Israel, he shall not be reckoned among the nations?" (Numbers xxiii. 9, Sanhedrin  as above). Abbahu made a notable exception with reference to the   116a). Of special historical interest is the observation of Abbahu in regard to the benediction "Baruk Shem Kebod Malkuto" (Blessed be the Name of His glorious Kingdom) after the "Shema Yisrael," that in Palestine, where the Christians look for points of controversy, the words should be recited aloud (lest the Jews be accused of tampering with the unity of God proclaimed in the Shema), whereas in the Babylonian city of   44:6;   Taanit, ii.65b). Adam (Yalḳ., Enoch (Gen. R. 25), and on the resurrection (Shab. 152b), are less clear and direct (see Bacher, Ag. Pal. Amor. ii.97, 115-118). *Grätz, Gesch. d. Juden, 2d ed., iv.304, 307-317;* Jost, Gesch. des Judenthums und seiner Sekten, ii.161-164;* Frankel, Mebo, pp.&nbsp;58a-60;* Weiss, Dor, iii.103-105;* Bacher, Ag. Pal. Amor. ii.88-142.  