Abd al-Latif al-Baghdadi (medieval writer)Muwaffaq al-Din Muhammad Abd al-Latif ibn Yusuf al-Baghdadi ( ; 1162–1231), more commonly known as Abd al-Latif al-Baghdadi or Abdallatif al-Baghdadi ( ), born in Baghdad, Iraq, was a celebrated Islamic medicine|physician, Historiography of early Islam|historian, Egyptologist and traveller, and one of the most voluminous writers of the Near East in his time. An interesting memoir of Abdallatif, written by himself, has been preserved with additions by Ibn Abu-Osaiba (Ibn Abi Usaibia), a contemporary. From that work we learn that the higher education of the youth of Baghdad consisted principally in a minute and careful study of the rules and principles of grammar, and in their committing to memory the whole of the Quran, a treatise or two on philology and jurisprudence, and the choicest Arabic poetry.After attaining to great proficiency in that kind of learning, Abdallatif applied himself to natural philosophy and medicine. To enjoy the society of the learned, he went first to Mosul (1189), and afterwards to Damascus. With letters of recommendation from Saladins vizier, he visited Egypt, where he realized his wish to converse with Maimonides.He afterwards formed one of the circles of learned men whom Saladin gathered around him at Jerusalem. He taught medicine and philosophy at Cairo and at Damascus for a number of years, and afterwards, for a shorter period, at Aleppo. pilgrimage to Mecca when he died at Baghdad. Abdallatif was undoubtedly a man of great knowledge and of an inquisitive and penetrating mind. Of the numerous works (mostly on medicine) which Osaiba ascribes to him, one only, his graphic and detailed Account of Egypt (in two parts), appears to be known in Europe.==Abd-al Latif was well aware of the value of ancient monuments and praised Muslim rulers for preserving and protecting pre-Islamic artifacts and monuments. He noted that the preservation of antiquities presented a number of benefits for Muslims:   *"monuments are useful historical evidence for chronologies;"*"they furnish evidence for Holy Scriptures, since the Quran mentions them and their people;"*"they are reminders of human endurance and fate;"*"they show, to a degree, the politics and history of ancestors, the richness of their sciences, and the genius of their thought." archeological expeditions. In some cases, an expedition could turn out to be fraud, with the treasure hunter disappearing with large amounts of money extracted from sponsors. This fraudulent practice continues to the present day, with rich businessmen in Egypt still being deceived by local treasure hunters. == ancient Egyptian monuments. ==Al-Baghdadi wrote that during the famine in Egypt in 597 AH (1200 AD), he had the opportunity to observe and examine a large number of skeletons. This was one of the earliest examples of a postmortem autopsy, through which he discovered that Galen was incorrect regarding the formation of the bones of the lower jaw and sacrum. == Joseph White Oxford in 1800. The work was then translated into French language|French, with valuable notes, by Silvestre de Sacy in 1810. == tissues after surgical operations. He did, however, understand that there is a risk over using leech, and advised patients that leech need to be cleaned before being used and that the dirt or dust "clinging to a leech should be wiped off" before application. He further writes that after the leech has sucked out the blood, salt should be "sprinkled on the affected part of the human body." == Islamic medical practices from the time of Muhammad.   ==Al-Baghdadi was also the author of a major book dealing with diabetes.   Silvestre de Sacy,  , Paris, 1810. – French translation of the "Account of Egypt". *   