Abdul AlhazredAbdul fictional character American horror writer H. P. Lovecraft. He is the so-called "Mad Arab" credited with authoring the imaginary book Kitab al-Azif (the Necronomicon), and as such an integral part of Cthulhu Mythos lore.The name Abdul Alhazred is a pseudonym that Lovecraft created in his youth, which he took on after reading 1001 Arabian Nights at the age of about five years. The name was invented either by Lovecraft, or by Albert Baker, the Phillips family lawyer.  Abdul is a common Arabic name component (but never a name by itself; additionally the ending -ul and the beginning Al- are redundant), but Alhazred may allude to Hazard, a pun on the books destructive and dangerous nature, or a reference to Lovecrafts ancestors by that name.   It might also have been a pun on "all-has-read", since Lovecraft was an avid reader in youth.   Abu Ali al-Hasan ibn al-Haytham, who wrote about optics, mathematics and physics. Ibn al-Haytham is said to have pretended to be mad to escape the wrath of a ruler. Abdul Alhazred is not a real   or Arabic word "Hazrat" meaning Great Lord with a twist that makes it sound like "red" and "hazard" both indicative of danger. However Abdul is a common Arabic prefix meaning "Servant of the" and "Al" is Arabic for "the", and if "hazra" means "he prohibited", "he fenced in" or "Great Lord", then the name would mean "Servant of the Prohibited", "Servant of the Fenced in", or "Servant of the Great Lord" which would make sense considering his role, even if it is not a proper Arabic name. Call of Cthulhu tabletop role-playing game speculates that it may be a corruption of Abd Al-Azrad, which it claims translates to The Worshipper of the Great Devourer.The phrase "mad Arab", sometimes with both words capitalized in Lovecrafts stories, is used so commonly before Alhazreds name that it almost constitutes a title. A reference to the "Mad Arab" in  ) or "scholar" replacing Arab to avoid any possible racist overtones.== According to Lovecrafts "History of the Necronomicon" (written 1927, first published 1938 in literature|1938), Alhazred was: Ommiade caliphs, Memphis and Roba El Khaliyeh or "Empty Space" of the ancients&mdash;and "Al-Dahna Desert|Dahna" or "Crimson" desert of the modern Arabs, which is held to be inhabited by protective evil spirits and monsters of death. Of this desert many strange and unbelievable marvels are told by those who pretend to have penetrated it. In his last years Alhazred dwelt in Damascus.In 730, while still living in Damascus, Alhazred supposedly wrote a book of ultimate evil in Arabic language|Arabic, al-Azif, which would later become known as the Necronomicon. Those who have dealings with this book usually come to an unpleasant end, and Alhazred was no exception. Again according to Lovecrafts "History": Ebn Khallikan a certain nameless desert town the shocking annals and secrets of a race older than mankind. He was only an indifferent Muslim|Moslem, worshipping unknown entities whom he called Yog-Sothoth and Cthulhu.== The Keeper Professor Laban Nayland Colum, discover Alhazreds burial site.While the two are heading a caravan from Salalah, Oman, they cross the border into Yemen and find the unexplored desert area that the Necronomicon calls "Roba el Ehaliyeh" or "Roba el Khaliyeh" — presumably a reference to the Empty Quarter or "Rub al Khali".At the center of the area they discover the Nameless City (the setting of the Lovecraft story of the same name) and in Derleths text the domain of the Great Old One Hastur. Shrewsbury, an old agent of Hastur and the devoted enemy of Hasturs half-brother, Cthulhu, crosses its gates in search of Alhazreds burial site.He indeed finds Alhazreds burial chamber and learns of his fate. Alhazred had been kidnapped in Damascus and brought to the Nameless City, where he had earlier studied and learned some of the Necronomicon s lore. As punishment for betraying their secrets, Alhazred was tortured. Then they blinded him, severed his tongue and executed him.Although the entrance to the chamber warns against disturbing him, Shrewsbury opens Alhazreds sarcophagus anyway, finding that only rags, bones, and dust remain of Alhazred. However, the sarcophagus also contains Alhazreds personal, incomplete copy of the Necronomicon, written in the Arabic alphabet. Shrewsbury then uses necromancy to recall Alhazreds spirit and orders it to draw a map of the world as he knew it. After obtaining the map, which reveals the location of Rlyeh and other secret places, Shrewsbury finally lets Alhazred return to his eternal rest.Like his creation the Necronomicon, Alhazred is often referenced in works that are not generally considered part of the Cthulhu Mythos, either as a subtle nod to Lovecraft or to create a connection to his world. In  , a character named after Alhazred appears as an evil vizier.In the yet-to-be released Diablo III, a travelling scholar named "Abd al-Hazir" functions as the fictional narrator for many of the games features.  Given the similarities in the two characters names, professions, written works and generally dark subject matter, it is likely that Lovecrafts Alhazred provided the main inspiration for al-Hazir. Into the Unknown reference Alhazred.The MMORPG Wizard101 features a Krok called Alhazred who teaches Balance magic. * * * == Alchemy and chemistry in Islam*Islamic astrology*Abdul Alhazred (comics)*Alhazred (novel)