Abdul Hamid IAbdülhamid I, Abdul Hamid I or Abd Al-Hamid I (  of the Ottoman Empire. He was the son of sultan Ahmed III (1703&ndash;30) and succeeded his brother Mustafa III (1757–74) on January 21, 1774. He was born in Constantinople. His mother was Rabia Sharmi|Râbia Sharmi Sultana.Abdülhamid was imprisoned for most of the first forty-two years of his life by his cousins Mahmud I and Osman III and his older brother Mustafa III, as was custom. He received his early education from his mother Rabia Sharmi|Râbia Sharmi Sultana, from whom he studied history and learned calligraphy. pacifist by Turks at Treaty of Küçük Kaynarca on July 21, 1774. In spite of his failures, Abdülhamid was regarded as the most gracious Sultan of the Ottomans. He administrated the fire brigade during the fire in 1782. In Constantinople, he won the admiration of his people as he was so religious that he was called a "Veli" (saint). He also traced a reform policy, followed the governmental administrations closely and worked with statesmen. When Abdülhamid came to the throne the army asked for gratuities and the sultan claimed that: "There are, no longer, gratuities in our treasury, all of our soldier sons should learn". He also began the restoration of the military system. He is credited with better education standards. He tried to renovate the Janissary corps and the naval forces. He established a new artillery troop. He made a census in the Janissary corps.Slight successes against rebellious outbreaks in Syria and the Morea could not compensate for the loss of the Crimea which Russia greatly coveted. War was once more declared against Russia in 1787 and in the following year the Russians were joined by Austria. The Swedes and Prussians joined the conflict on the side of the Ottomans, but provided no assistance. While the Ottomans held their own in the conflict they ultimately lost with Ochakov falling in 1788 to the Russians (all of its inhabitants being massacred.)In the year 1789, Tipu Sultan ruler of the Sultanate of Mysore sent an embasy to the Ottoman capitol of Istanbul, to Sultan Abdul Hamid I requesting urgent assistance against the British East India Company and had proposed an offensive and defensive consortium; Sultan Abdul Hamid I, informed the ambassadors of the Sultanate of Mysore that the Ottoman Empire was still recuperating from the Austro-Ottoman War and the Russo-Turkish Wars.Abdülhamid died four months later at the age of sixty-four in Constantinople. He was buried in Bahcekapi, a tomb he had built for himself. His wives were: Valide Sultan  ; Ayse Hanımefendi: Second concubine.His sons were: Mustafa IV (1807–08) (his son by Ayse Seniyeperver), Mahmud II (1808–39) (his son by Naksh-i-Dil Haseki), Murad, Nusret, Mehmed, Ahmed, and Suleyman. His daughters were: Esma Sultana (1778-1848)|Esma, Emine, Rabia, Saliha, Alimsah, Durusehvar, Fatma, Meliksah, Hibetullah and Zekiye Sultans.                