Acts of Union 1707Parliamentary Acts with the Great Britain".  Queen Elizabeth I. Although described as a Union of Crowns, until 1707 there were in fact two separate Crowns resting on the same head (as opposed to the implied creation of a single Crown and a single Kingdom, exemplified by the later Kingdom of Great Britain) . There had been three attempts in 1606, 1667, and 1689 to unite the two countries by Acts of Parliament, but it was not until the early 18th century that both political establishments came to support the idea, albeit for different reasons.The Acts took effect on 1 May 1707.  On this date, the Scottish Parliament and the English Parliament united to form the Parliament of Great Britain, based in the Palace of Westminster in London, the home of the English Parliament.  Hence, the Acts are referred to as the Union of the Parliaments. On the Union, historian Simon Schama said "What began as a hostile merger, would end in a full partnership in the most powerful going concern in the world ... it was one of the most astonishing transformations in European history." ==England and Scotland were separate states for several centuries before eventual union, and English attempts to take over Scotland by military force in the late 13th and early 14th centuries were ultimately unsuccessful (see the Wars of Scottish Independence). The first attempts at Union surrounded the foreseen unification  of the Royal lines of Scotland and England. In pursuing the English throne in the 1560s, Mary, Queen of Scots pledged herself to a peaceful union between the two kingdoms. England and Scotland were ruled by the same king for the first time in 1603 when James VI of Scotland also became the king of England. However they remained two separate states until 1 May 1707.Early Stuart union , created by James VI and I, symbolising the uniting of England and Scotland under one Crown]] King James Royal prerogative absolutist monarchical structure which James had previously enjoyed in Scotland.  In the meantime, James declared that Great Britain be viewed as presently united, and as one realm and kingdom, and the subjects of both realms as one people. The Scottish and English parliaments established a commission to negotiate a union, formulating an instrument of union between the two countries. A latent unpopularity of the union remained, however, and when James dropped his policy of a speedy union the topic quietly disappeared from the legislative agenda. When the House of Commons attempted to revive the proposal in 1610, it was met with a more open hostility. Union during the interregnum The Solemn League and Covenant 1643 sought a forced union of the Church of England into the Church of Scotland, and although the covenant referred repeatedly to union between the three kingdoms of England, Scotland, and Ireland, a political union was not spelled out. Commonwealth of Act of Union, on 26 June 1657.  One united Parliament sat in Westminster, with 30 representatives from Scotland and 30 from Ireland joining the existing members from England. Whilst free trade was brought about amongst the new Commonwealth, the economic benefits were generally not felt as a result of heavy taxation used to fund Cromwells New Model Army.  restoration of King Charles Parliament petitioned Charles II attempted to recreate the union and fulfil the work of his grandfather in 1669, negotiations between Commissioners ground to a halt. Later attemptsAn abortive scheme for union occurred in Scotland in 1670. Following the Glorious Revolution in 1689, the records of the Parliament of Scotland show much discussion of possible union. William and Mary, whilst supportive of the idea, had no interest in allowing it to delay their enthronement. Impetus for this incorporating union came almost entirely from King William, fearful of leaving the backdoor open to a French invasion. In the 1690s, however, the economic position of Scotland worsened and the relations between Scotland and England became strained.  By the 18th century, however, union became a significant matter on the political agenda.== Duke of Queensberry and the Duke of Argyll. Most favoured union, and about half were government ministers and other officials. At the head of the list was Queensberry, and the Lord Chancellor of Scotland, the Earl of Seafield.  , UK Parliament website. Other commissioners were businessmen and bankers, including two directors of the Bank of Scotland, and a director of the Company of Scotland, and local leaders such as Sir James Smollet (Dumbarton), and Sir Patrick Johnston, the provost of Edinburgh. The Scottish Parliament was also represented. Few of those appointed from Scotland represented the popular view against the union, Lockhart of Carnwarth being the most prominent of these. Robert Harley, Whigs who supported union. Tories were not in favour of union and were not represented on the commission.  William Cowper, Lord Seafield, Queen Anne to the Scottish crown, and the Scots received some much-desired access to colonial markets, in the hope that they would be placed on an equal footing in terms of trade.  , UK Parliament website.  Squadrone Volante, Marquess of Montrose and the Duke of Roxburghe. Opponents of the court were generally known as the Country party, and included various factions and individuals such as the Duke of Hamilton, Lord Belhaven and Andrew Fletcher of Saltoun, who spoke forcefully and passionately against the union. The Court party enjoyed significant funding from England and the Treasury and included many who had accumulated debts following the Darien disaster.  Duke of Queensberry was largely responsible for the successful passage of the Union act by the Scottish Parliament. In Scotland, he received much criticism from local residents, but in England he was cheered for his action. He had received around half of the funding awarded by the Westminster treasury for himself. In April 1707, he travelled to London in order to attend celebrations at the royal court, and was greeted by groups of noblemen and gentry lined along the road. From Barnet, the route was lined with crowds of cheering people, and once he reached London a huge crowd had formed. On 17 April, the Duke was gratefully received by the Queen at Kensington Palace.  ]]==The English purpose of it was to ensure that Scotland would not choose a monarch different from the one on the English throne. The two countries had shared a king for much of the previous century, but the English were concerned that an independent Scotland with a different king, even if he were a Protestant, might make alliances against England. The English succession was provided for by the English   explicitly required a choice different from the English monarch.== Alien Act to force the Scottish Parliament into compliance with the Act of Settlement.  Scottish Parliament Squadrone Volante were sufficient to ensure the final passage of the treaty through the House. s sterling to Scotland to offset future liability towards the English national debt. In essence, it was also used as a means of compensation for investors in the Darien Scheme.Even more direct bribery was also said to be a factor.  £20,000 (£240,000 Pound Scots|Scots) was dispatched to Scotland for distribution by the Earl of Glasgow. James Douglas, 2nd Duke of Queensberry, the Queens Commissioner in Parliament, received £12,325, the majority of the funding. (Some contend that all of this money was properly accounted for as compensation for loss of office, pensions and so forth not outwith the usual run of government.  It is perhaps a debate that will never be set to rest. However, modern research has shown that payments were made to supporters of union that appear not to have been overdue salaries. At least four payments were made to people who were not even members of the Scottish Parliament.) Robert Burns referred to this::Were bought and sold for English Gold,:Sic a Parcel of Rogues in a Nation.Some of the money was used to hire espionage|spies, such as Daniel Defoe; his first reports were of vivid descriptions of violent demonstrations against the Union. "A Scots rabble is the worst of its kind," he reported, "for every Scot in favour there is 99 against". Years later John Clerk of Penicuik, originally a leading Unionism (Scotland)|Unionist, wrote in his memoirs that,:(Defoe) was a spy among us, but not known as such, otherwise the Mob of Edinburgh would pull him to pieces. Robert Harley. Sir George Sir John Clerk of Penicuik, an ardent pro-unionist and Union negotiator, observed that the treaty was "contrary to the inclinations of at least three-fourths of the Kingdom". Public opinion against the Treaty as it passed through the Scottish Parliament was voiced through petitions from shires, burghs, presbyteries and parishes. The Convention of Royal Burghs also petitioned against the Union and not one petition in favour of an incorporating union was received by Parliament. On the day the treaty was signed, the carilloner in St Giles Cathedral, Edinburgh, rang the bells in the tune Why should I be so sad on my wedding day?  There were also massive protests in Edinburgh and several other Scottish burghs on the day it was passed by Parliament,  as threats of widespread civil unrest resulted in Parliament imposing martial law.==Kingdom of Ireland|Ireland, the third of the "sister kingdoms", was not included in the union. It remained a separate kingdom and indeed was legally subordinate to Great Britain until 1784.Irelands benefits from the Union of 1707 were few. Its preferential status in trade with England now extended to Scotland. However, Ireland was left unequal and unrepresented in the Parliament of Great Britain. union with Ireland finally came about on 1 January 1801.  of Queen Anne, depicting the Tudor rose and the Scottish thistle growing out of the same stem.]] The Treaty of Union, agreed between representatives of the Parliament of England and the Parliament of Scotland in 1706, consisted of 25 articles, 15 of which were economic in nature. In Scotland, each article was voted on separately and several clauses in articles were delegated to specialised subcommittees. Article 1 of the treaty was based on the political principle of an incorporating union and this was secured by a majority of 116 votes to 83 on 4 November 1706. In order to minimise the opposition of the Church of Scotland, an Act was also passed to secure the Presbyterian establishment of the Church, after which the Church stopped its open opposition, although hostility remained at lower levels of the clergy.  The treaty as a whole was finally ratified on 16 January 1707 by a majority of 110 votes to 69.    representative peers Roman Catholics from taking the throne. It also created a customs union and monetary union.The Act provided that any "laws and statutes" that were "contrary to or inconsistent with the terms" of the Act would "cease and become void."Soon after the Union, the Act 6 Anne c.40 (later   named the "Union with Scotland (Amendment) Act 1707") united the English and Scottish Privy Councils and decentralised Scottish administration by appointing justices of the peace in each shire to carry out administration.  In effect it took the day to day government of Scotland out of the hands of politicians and into those of the College of Justice.The English and Scottish parliaments had evolved along different lines, and for example the former Parliament of Scotland was unicameralism|unicameral, not bicameralism|bicameral. Most of the pre-Union traditions of Westminster continued unchanged by becoming the Parliament of Great Britain. Defoe drew upon his Scottish experience to write his Tour thro the whole Island of Great Britain, published in 1726, where he actually admitted that the increase of trade and population in Scotland, which he had predicted as a consequence of the Union, was "not the case, but rather the contrary."Andrew Fletcher of Saltoun, a vehement critic of the Union, said in An Account of a Conversation, that Scotland suffered "... the miserable and languishing condition of all places that depend upon a remote seat of government."However by the time   in particular had become one of the greatest cities of Britain. devolved Scottish referendum in Winifred Ewing SNP regional Highlands and Islands, in her role as the oldest member and de facto Mother of the House, being first to take the parliamentary oath to Her Majesty the Queen. During the opening address which she delivered, she concluded with the words "the Scottish Parliament, adjourned on the 25th of March in the year 1707 is hereby reconvened."   constituent country of the UK.  Whilst it has power to make laws in Scotland – in addition to the UK Parliament – over many home affairs issues, there are other reserved powers such as defence and foreign affairs over which it has no power.The SNP government, recently elected in a historic landslide victory, has promised a referendum on independence during the lifetime of the current Scottish Parliament. If the Scottish National Party campaign is successful Scotland will see the restoration of its independent status and the Act of Union will be dissolved. There is some dispute about the name which will be used by England, Wales and Northern Ireland. This relates to the fact that Wales and Northern Ireland are not kingdoms and that the title United Kingdom is seen as inappropriate whereas Great Britain does not include Ireland. It is possible that England, Wales and Northern Ireland will become the official title after the manner of Bosnia and Herzegovina.  Scottish Parliament general election on 3 May 2007. The then-current Scottish Executive held a number of commemorative events through the year including an education project led by the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Scotland, an exhibition of Union-related objects and documents at the National Museums of Scotland and an exhibition of portraits of people associated with the Union at the National Galleries of Scotland.  Andrew Fletcher*Daniel Defoe*History of democracy*List of treaties*MacCormick v Lord Advocate*Parliament of the United Kingdom*Political union*Real union*English independence*Scottish independence*Scottish Parliament*Unionism in Scotland*Welsh independence  * Defoe, Daniel.  A tour thro the Whole Island of Great Britain, 1724–27* Defoe, Daniel.  The Letters of Daniel Defoe, GH Healey editor. Oxford: 1955.* Fletcher, Andrew (Saltoun). An Account of a Conversation* Herman, Arthur. How the Scots Invented the Modern World.  Three Rivers Press, 2001.  ISBN 0-609-80999-7* Lockhart, George, "The Lockhart Papers", 1702–1728  *   * , the Scottish Parliament*  at the Parliamentary Archives*  courtesy of the National archives of Scotland, published by the Scottish council on archives.org*  courtesy National Archives of Scotland, Scottish Parliament website* * , University of Guelph, McLaughlin Library, Library and Archives Canada* * 