Ad hominemAn ad hominem (Latin for "to the man" or "to the person"), short for argumentum ad hominem, is an attempt to negate the truth of a claim by pointing out a negative characteristic or belief of the person supporting it.  Ad hominem reasoning is normally described as a logical fallacy.     Ad hominem arguments work via the halo effect, a human cognitive bias in which the perception of one trait is influenced by the perception of an unrelated trait, e.g. treating an attractive person as more intelligent or more honest. People tend to see others as tending to all good or tending to all bad. Thus, if you can attribute a bad trait to your opponent, others will tend to doubt the quality of their arguments, even if the bad trait is irrelevant to the arguments.==Abusive ad hominem (also called personal abuse or personal attacks) usually involves insulting or belittling ones opponent in order to attack his claim or invalidate his argument, but can also involve pointing out true character flaws or actions that are irrelevant to the opponents argument. This tactic is logically fallacious because insults and negative facts about the opponents personal character have nothing to do with the logical merits of the opponents arguments or assertions.Examples:* "You cant believe John when he says the proposed policy would help the economy. He doesnt even have a job."* "Candidate Janes proposal about zoning is ridiculous. She was caught cheating on her taxes in 2003."* "What would Mary know about fixing cars? She is a woman." (an example of Ad feminam) An abusive ad hominem can apply to a judgment of cultural works or academic efforts  based on the behavior or unconventional political beliefs of an artist, author, or musician, or the taste of an infamous person who loved a certain work.Examples:* Jimi Hendrix died of a drug overdose, so his music was worthless.* Leni Riefenstahl was a Nazi, so her film The Triumph of the Will is devoid of merit.* Sylvia Plath was a depressive who eventually committed suicide, so her works are unreadable.* What Ted Kaczynski wrote about boundary conditions in mathematics is shown false due to his crimes.==Ad hominem circumstantial points out that someone is in circumstances such that he is disposed to take a particular position. Ad hominem circumstantial constitutes an attack on the bias of a source. This is fallacious because a disposition to make a certain argument does not make the argument false; this overlaps with the genetic fallacy (an argument that a claim is incorrect due to its source).   The circumstantial fallacy applies only where the source taking a position is only making a logical argument from premises that are generally accepted. Where the source seeks to convince an audience of  the truth of a premise by a claim of authority or by personal observation, observation of their circumstances may reduce the evidentiary weight of the claims, sometimes to zero.   Examples: Mandy Rice-Daviess famous testimony during the Profumo Affair, "Well, he would  , wouldnt he?", is an example of a valid circumstantial argument. Her point was that a man in a prominent position, accused of an affair with a callgirl, would deny the claim whether it was true or false.  His denial, in itself, carries little evidential weight against the claim of an affair.  Note, however, that this argument is valid only insofar as it devalues the denial; it does not bolster the original claim.  To construe evidentiary invalidation of the denial as evidentiary validation of the original claim is fallacious (on several different bases, including that of argumentum ad hominem); however likely the man in question would be to deny an affair that did in fact happen, he could only be more likely to deny an affair that never did.Conflict of Interest: Where a source seeks to convince by a claim of authority or by personal observation, identification of conflicts of interest are not ad hominem – it is generally well accepted that an "authority" needs to be objective and impartial, and that an audience can only evaluate information from a source if they know about conflicts of interest that may affect the objectivity of the source. Identification of a conflict of interest is appropriate, and concealment of a conflict of interest is a problem.== Ad hominem  , but this does not make the statement less credible from a logical perspective.  Indeed, Source A may be in a position to provide personal testimony to support the argument.For example, a father may tell his son not to start smoking as he will regret it when he is older, and the son may point out that his father is or was a smoker. This does not alter the fact that his son may regret smoking when he is older.== Guilt by association can sometimes also be a type of ad hominem fallacy if the argument attacks a source because of the similarity between the views of someone making an argument and other proponents of the argument. This form of the argument is as follows:#Source S makes claim C.#Group G, which is currently viewed negatively by the recipient, also makes claim C.#Therefore, source S is viewed by the recipient of the claim as associated to the group G and inherits how negatively viewed it is.Gratuitous verbal abuse or "name-calling" itself is not an ad hominem or a logical fallacy.       Doug Walton has argued that ad hominem reasoning is not always fallacious, and that in some instances, questions of personal conduct, character, motives, etc., are legitimate and relevant to the issue , as when it directly involves hypocrisy, or actions contradicting the subjects words. Charles Taylor apodictic reasoning philosophical naturalism.  *And you are lynching Negroes*Appeal to authority*Association fallacy*Character assassination*Credibility*Discrediting tactic*Fair Game (Scientology)*Fundamental attribution error*Hostile witness* List of logical fallacies*Negative campaigning*Reputation*Self-hating Jew*Shooting the messenger    *  *   *  .*  .*  *  *  *  *