Ada LovelaceAugusta Ada King, Countess of Lovelace (10 December 1815&nbsp;– 27 November 1852), born Augusta Ada Byron, was an English writer chiefly known for her work on Charles Babbages early mechanical general-purpose computer, the analytical engine. Her notes on the engine include what is recognised as the first algorithm intended to be processed by a machine; as such she is sometimes considered the "Worlds First Computer Programmer". J. Fuegi and J. Francis, "Lovelace & Babbage and the creation of the 1843 notes". IEEE Annals of the History of Computing 25 No.&nbsp;4 (October–December 2003): 16–26.     set of notes of her own. These notes contain what is considered the first computer program—that is, an algorithm encoded for processing by a machine. Though Babbages engine has never been built, Lovelaces notes are important in the early history of computers. She also foresaw the capability of computers to go beyond mere calculating or number-crunching while others, including Babbage himself, focused only on these capabilities. Ada Augusta Byron was born on 10 December 1815, the child of the poet Lord Byron, 6th Lord Byron and his wife, Anne Isabella "Annabella" Milbanke, Baroness Wentworth.  Byron, and many of those who knew Byron, expected that the baby would be "the glorious boy", and there was some disappointment at the contrary news. Turney 1972 p. 35  She was named after Byrons half-sister, Augusta Leigh, and was called "Ada" by Byron himself. Stein, Ada p. 17  ]] Wentworth Viscounts.Lovelace was often ill, dating from her early childhood. At the age of eight she experienced headaches that obscured her vision.  In June 1829, she was paralysed after a bout of the measles. She was subjected to continuous bed rest for nearly a year, which may have extended her period of disability. By 1831 she was able to walk with crutches. William Frend, William King and Mary Somerville.  One of her later tutors was the noted mathematician and logician Augustus De Morgan. From 1832, when she was seventeen, her remarkable mathematical abilities began to emerge,  and her interest in mathematics dominated her life even after her marriage. In a letter to Lovelaces mother, De Morgan suggested that Lovelaces skill in mathematics could lead her to become "an original mathematical investigator, perhaps of first-rate eminence". Lovelace never met her younger half-sister, Allegra Byron, daughter of Lord Byron and Claire Clairmont, who died in 1822 at the age of five. She did, however, have some contact with Elizabeth Medora Leigh, the daughter of Byrons half-sister Augusta Leigh. Augusta Leigh purposely avoided Lovelace as much as possible when she was introduced at Court. == Sir David Brewster, Charles Wheatstone, Charles Dickens and Michael Faraday. John Hobhouse, Lord Byrons friend, was the exception and he described her as "a large, coarse-skinned young woman but with something of my friends features, particularly the mouth".  This description followed their meeting on 24 February 1834 in which Lovelace made it clear to Hobhouse that she did not like him, probably due to the influence of her mother, which led her to dislike all of her fathers friends. This first impression was not to last, and they later became friends. Turney 1972 p. 139  William King, 1st Earl King in preparation for their honeymoon.  It later became their summer retreat and was further improved during this time.  The house was built on a small plateau in woodland overlooking the Bristol Channel and surrounded by terraced gardens in the Italian style. Byron born Ralph Gordon born 2 July 1839. Immediately after the birth of Annabella, Lovelace experienced "a tedious and suffering illness, which took months to cure".  Medora Leigh (daughter of Lord Byrons half-sister Augusta Leigh) were told by Lovelaces mother that Byron, her father, was also Medoras father.  On 27 February 1841, Lovelace wrote to her mother: "I am not in the least astonished. In fact you merely confirm what I have for years and years felt scarcely a doubt about, but should have considered it most improper in me to hint to you that I in any way suspected".  Lovelace did not blame the incestuous relationship on Byron, but instead blamed Augusta Leigh: "I fear she is more inherently wicked than he ever was".  This did not prevent Lovelaces mother from attempting to destroy her daughters image of her father, but instead drove her to attack Byrons image with greater intensity. ==Ada Lovelace met and corresponded with Charles Babbage on many occasions, including socially and in relation to Babbages Difference Engine and Analytical Engine. Babbage was impressed by Lovelaces intellect and writing skills. He called her "The Enchantress of Numbers". In 1843 he wrote of her:  Forget this world and all its troubles and ifpossible its multitudinous Charlatans&nbsp;– every thingin short but the Enchantress of Numbers.    During a nine-month period in 1842–43, Lovelace translated Italian mathematician Luigi Menabreas memoir on Babbages newest proposed machine, the Analytical Engine. With the article, she appended a set of notes. Menabrea 1843.  The notes are longer than the memoir itself and include (Section G), in complete detail, a method for calculating a sequence of Bernoulli numbers with the Engine, which would have run correctly had the Analytical Engine been built. Based on this work, Lovelace is now widely credited with being the first computer programmer  and her method is recognised as the worlds first computer program.  Babbage were Dr Barnardos housing child evacuees from cities, including Bristol, during World War II.   After a brief spell as a country club in the early 1950s it fell into disrepair and was demolished in 1974.  Parts of the gardens, though severely overgrown, are visible from the footpath from Porlock Weir to Culbone.  The village computer centre in the nearby village of Porlock is named after Lovelace.Some biographers debate the extent of her original contributions. Dorothy Stein, author of Ada: A Life and a Legacy, contends that the programs were mostly written by Babbage himself.  Babbage wrote the following on the subject, in his Passages from the Life of a Philosopher (1864).  The level of impact of Lovelace on Babbages engines is difficult to resolve from Babbages writings due to Babbages tendency not to acknowledge (either orally or in writing) the influence of other people in his work. == Church of St. Mary Magdalene in Hucknall, Nottingham. , which supports open technology and women.]] Luigi Menabrea, a young Italian engineer, and future prime minister of Italy, wrote up Babbages lecture in French, and this transcript was subsequently published in the Bibliothèque Universelle de Genève in October 1842.Babbage asked the Countess of Lovelace to translate Menabreas paper into English, subsequently requesting that she augment the notes she had added to the translation. Lady Lovelace spent most of a year doing this. These notes, which are more extensive than Menabreas paper, were then published in The Ladies Diary and Taylors Scientific Memoirs under the initialism "AAL".In 1953, over one hundred years after her death, Lady Lovelaces notes on Babbages Analytical Engine were republished. The engine has now been recognised as an early model for a computer and Lady Lovelaces notes as a description of a computer and software. Her notes were labelled alphabetically from A to G. In note G, the Countess describes an algorithm for the analytical engine to compute Bernoulli numbers. It is considered the first algorithm ever specifically tailored for implementation on a computer, and for this reason she is often cited as the first computer programmer.  However the engine was never actually constructed to completion during Lovelaces lifetime. Department of medal in her name  and in 2008 initiated an annual competition for women students of computer science. Lady Lovelace has been portrayed in the film Conceiving Ada, the steam punk novel The Difference Engine, by William Gibson and Bruce Sterling and the webcomic 2D Goggles   by Sydney Padua.    is an organization whose goal is to "raise the profile of women in science, technology, engineering and maths".In the UK, the annual conference for women undergraduates is named after Ada Lovelace (the BCSWomen Lovelace Colloquium). This moves around; in 2008 and 2009 it was in Leeds, 2010 in Cardiff, and 2011 in Birmingham. 2012 will be in Bath .In 2009 and 2010, 24 March was commemorated by some as Ada Lovelace Day, a day to celebrate the achievements of women in technology and science. The 2011 Ada Lovelace Day was on 7 October.  10 December 1815 – 8 July 1835: The Honourable Ada Augusta Byron* 8 July 1835–1838: The Right Honourable the Lady King* 1838 – 27 November 1852: The Right Honourable the Countess of Lovelace   with notes by trans. Ada Lovelace, in Scientific Memoirs, Vol 3 (1842) * Women in computing   * Baum, Joan. The Calculating Passion of Ada Byron. Archon Books, 1986. ISBN 0-208-02119-1* Fuegi, J. and Francis, J. "Lovelace & Babbage and the creation of the 1843 notes". IEEE Annals of the History of Computing 25 No.&nbsp;4 (October–December 2003):  * Kim, Eugene and Toole, Betty Alexandra T, "Ada and the First Computer", Scientific American, May 1999*   With notes upon the Memoir by the Translator*  *  * Toole, Betty Alexandra Toole Ed.D, Ada, the Enchantress of Numbers, A Selection from the Letters of Ada Lovelace, and her Description of the First Computer (1992)* Toole, Betty Alexandra Toole Ed.D.,  , 2010*  *    *  *  , Agnes Scott College*  *  *  *  *  *   &ndash; streaming audio*  *  *  