Adam Weishaupt German philosopher Order of Illuminati, a secret society with origins in Bavaria. godfather Johann Johann Adam Christian Wolff Jesuit school. doctorate of law.  In 1772  he became a professor of law. The following year he married Afra Sausenhofer  of Eichstätt. Jesuits until empirical philosophy University of Kantian idealism.  On 1 May 1776 Weishaupt formed the "Order of Perfectibilists". He adopted the name of "Brother Spartacus" within the order. Though the Order was not egalitarian or democratic, its mission was the abolition of all monarchical governments and state religions in Europe and its colonies. Catholic Encyclopedia:  , sourcing Illuminati papers The actual character of the society was an elaborate network of spies and counter-spies. Each isolated cell of initiates reported to a superior, whom they did not know, a party structure that was effectively adopted by some later groups. Weishaupt was initiated into the Masonic Lodge "Theodor zum guten Rath", at Munich in 1777. His project of "illumination, enlightening the understanding by the sun of reason, which will dispel the clouds of superstition and of prejudice" was an unwelcome reform.  Soon however he had developed gnostic mysteries of his own, with the goal of "perfecting human" nature through re-education to achieve a communal state with nature, freed of government and organized religion. He began working towards incorporating his system of Illuminism with that of Freemasonry. He wrote: "I did not bring Deism into Bavaria more than into Rome. I found it here, in great vigour, more abounding than in any of the neighboring Protestant States. I am proud to be known to the world as the founder of the Illuminati."  Karl Theodor, Elector of Bavaria, in 1784. Weishaupt lost his position at the University of Ingolstadt and fled Bavaria.  Duke Ernest Gotha writing a series of works on illuminism, including A Complete History of the Persecutions of the Illuminati in Bavaria (1785), A Picture of Illuminism (1786), An Apology for the Illuminati (1786), and An Improved System of Illuminism (1787). Adam Weishaupt died in Gotha on 18 November 1830.     He was survived by his second wife, Anna Maria (née Sausenhofer), and his children Nanette, Charlotte, Ernst, Karl von Weishaupt|Karl, Eduard von Weishaupt|Eduard, and Alfred.  Weishaupt was buried next to his son Wilhelm who preceded him in death in 1802.  , who replied::It was not my intention to doubt that, the Doctrines of the Illuminati, and principles of Jacobinism had not spread in the United States. On the contrary, no one is more truly satisfied of this fact than I am. The idea that I meant to convey, was, that I did not believe that the Lodges of Free Masons in this Country had, as Societies, endeavoured to propagate the diabolical tenets of the first, or pernicious principles of the latter (if they are susceptible of separation).    }} Adam Weishaupt is referred to repeatedly in The Illuminatus! Trilogy, written by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson, as the founder of the Bavarian Illuminati and as an imposter who killed George Washington and took his place as the first president of the United States. Washingtons portrait on the U.S. one-dollar bill is said to actually be Weishaupts.Another version of Adam Weishaupt appears in the extensive comic book novel Cerebus the Aardvark by Dave Sim, as a combination of Weishaupt and George Washington. He appears primarily in the Cerebus and Church & State I volumes. His motives are republican confederalizing of city-states in Estarcion (a pseudo-Europe) and the accumulation of capital unencumbered by government or church. 17 and 23. Tracer Tong notes "1723... the birthdate of Adam Weishaupt" Weishaupt was in fact born in 1748. However 1723 was the year that Weishaupts freemasonry lodge, "Theodor zum guten Rath", was founded. Bush got Cage in El-Ps "Accidents Dont Happen", the ninth track on his album Fantastic Damage (2002).==* (1786) Apologie der Illuminaten.* (1786) Vollständige Geschichte der Verfolgung der Illuminaten in Bayern.* (1786) Schilderung der Illuminaten.* (1787) Einleitung zu meiner Apologie.* (1787)  * (1787)    * (1787) Kurze Rechtfertigung meiner Absichten.* (1787) Nachtrag zur Rechtfertigung meiner Absichten.* (1787) Apologie des Mißvergnügens und des Übels.* (1787) Das Verbesserte System der Illuminaten.* (1788) Der ächte Illuminat, oder die wahren, unverbesserten Rituale der Illuminaten.* (1795) Pythagoras, oder Betrachtungen über die geheime Welt- und Regierungskunst.==* (1775) De Lapsu Academiarum Commentatio Politica.* (1786) Über die Schrecken des Todes&nbsp;– eine philosophische Rede.**   Discours Philosophique sur les Frayeurs de la Mort (1788).  * (1786) Über Materialismus und Idealismus.  * (1788) Geschichte der Vervollkommnung des menschlichen Geschlechts.* (1788) Über die Gründe und Gewißheit der Menschlichen Erkenntniß.* (1788) Über die Kantischen Anschauungen und Erscheinungen.* (1788) Zweifel über die Kantischen Begriffe von Zeit und Raum.* (1793) Über Wahrheit und sittliche Vollkommenheit.* (1794) Über die Lehre von den Gründen und Ursachen aller Dinge.* (1794) Über die Selbsterkenntnis, ihre Hindernisse und Vorteile.* (1797) Über die Zwecke oder Finalursachen.* (1802) Über die Hindernisse der baierischen Industrie und Bevölkerung.* (1804) Die Leuchte des Diogenes. Masonic Book Club to be its published work for 2008. (Ed. Andrew Swanlund).* (1817) Über die Staats-Ausgaben und Auflagen.  * (1818) Über das Besteuerungs-System.  *   Biography in Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie   by Daniel Jacoby.*  by Trevor W. McKeown. The Catholic Encyclopedia, hosted by New Advent.  