Adelaide of Italy Otto the Great, Holy Roman Emperor. Empress Adelaide was perhaps the most prominent European woman of the 10th century; she was regent of the Holy Roman Empire as the guardian of her grandson in 991-995. Lothair II, the nominal King of Italy;  the union was part of a political settlement designed to conclude a peace between her father and Hugh of Provence, the father of Lothair. They had a daughter, Emma of Italy.== The   capital of  , the first Princess-Abbess of Quedlinburg, born about&nbsp;954; and Otto II, Holy Roman Emperor|Otto&nbsp;II, later Holy Roman Emperor, born&nbsp;955.In Germany, the crushing of a revolt in 953 by Liudolf, Duke of Swabia|Liudolf, Ottos son by his first marriage,  cemented the position of Adelaide, who retained all her dower lands. She accompanied Otto in 966 on his third expedition to Italy, where she remained with him for six years.==When her husband Otto I died in 973 he was succeeded by their son Otto&nbsp;II, and Adelaide for some years exercised a powerful influence at court. Later, however, her daughter-in-law, the Byzantine princess Theophanu|Theophano, turned her husband Otto&nbsp;II against his mother, and she was driven from court in&nbsp;978; she lived partly in Italy, and partly with her brother Conrad, king of Burgundy, by whose mediation she was ultimately reconciled to her son; in 983 Otto appointed her his viceroy in Italy. However, Otto died the same year, and although both mother and grandmother were appointed as co-regents for the child-king, Otto III, Holy Roman Emperor|Otto&nbsp;III, Theophano forced Adelaide to abdicate and exiled her. When Theophano died in&nbsp;991, Adelaide was restored to the regency of her grandson.  She was assisted by Willigis, Archbishop of Mainz. In 995 Otto&nbsp;III came of age, and Adelaide was free to devote herself exclusively to works of charity, notably the foundation or restoration of religious houses.== Selz in Burgundy to Second Coming Early Middle Ages in the construction of the religion-culture of western Europe. Her feast day, December 16, is still kept in many German dioceses.Adelaïde is the heroine of Gioacchino Rossinis 1817 opera, Adelaide di Borgogna. Heritage Floor.    Chicago, 104-105.  Attwater, Donald and Catherine Rachel John. The Penguin Dictionary of Saints. New York: Penguin Books (1993). ISBN 0140513124.*Chicago, Judy. The Dinner Party: From Creation to Preservation. London: Merrell (2007). ISBN 1858943701*Coulson, John. The Saints: A Concise Biographical Dictionary. New York: Hawthorn Books (1958). *     |-   |-   