AdmiraltyThe Admiralty was formerly the authority in the Kingdom of England, and later in the United Kingdom, responsible for the command of the Royal Navy. Originally exercised by a single person, the office of Lord High Admiral was from the 18th Century onward almost invariably put "in commission", and was exercised by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, who sat on the Board of Admiralty. Admiralty Board, Ministry of Defence. The new Admiralty Board meets only twice a year, and the day-to-day running of the Royal Navy is controlled by a Navy Board (not to be confused with the historical Navy Board described later in this article). It is not uncommon for the various authorities now in charge of the Royal Navy to be referred to simply as The Admiralty. Sovereign from The Duke of Edinburgh by the Queen on his 90th Birthday.  However, there continues to be a Vice-Admiral of the United Kingdom and a Rear-Admiral of the United Kingdom, both of which are honorary offices.==  Henry VIII established the Council of the Marine, later to become the Navy Board, to oversee administrative affairs of the naval service. Operational control of the Navy remained the responsibility of the Lord High Admiral, who was one of the nine Great Officers of State. Charles I King William IV in the early 19th century).In 1831 the Navy Board was abolished as a separate entity and its duties and responsibilities were given over to the Admiralty. Ministry of Defence along with the War Office and the Air Ministry. Within the expanded Ministry of Defence are the new Admiralty Board, Army Board and Air Force Board, each headed by the Secretary of State for Defence. As mentioned above, there is also a new Navy Board in charge of the day-to-day running of the Royal Navy.==  Great Britain or the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland depending on the period). Naval Lords or Sea Lords, and Civil Lords, normally politicians. The quorum of the Board was two commissioners and a secretary.The president of the Board was known as the First Lord of the Admiralty, who was a member of the Cabinet of the United Kingdom|Cabinet. After 1806, the First Lord of the Admiralty was always a civilian, while the professional head of the navy came to be (and is still today) known as the First Sea Lord.  The Mall and includes five buildings. Since the Admiralty no longer exists as a department, these are now used as an "office bank" by the British government:== Ripley Building.It is a three storey U-shaped brick building completed in 1726. Alexander Pope implied the architecture is rather dull, lacking either the vigour of the baroque style which was fading from fashion at the time, or the austere grandeur of the Palladian style which was just coming into vogue. It is mainly notable for being perhaps the first purpose built office building in Great Britain. It contained a board room, other state rooms and offices and apartments for the Lords of the Admiralty. Robert Adam designed the screen which was added to the entrance front in 1788. Nowadays the Ripley Building is allocated to the Cabinet Office.  Old Admiralty (Ripley Building) in 1760 before addition of the Adam screen Old Admiralty (Ripley Building) circa 1790 after addition of the Adam screen Old Admiralty (Ripley Building) circa 1830 == Admiralty House is a moderately proportioned mansion to the south of the Ripley Building, built in the late 18th century as the residence of the First Lord of the Admiralty, serving that purpose until 1964. Winston Churchill was one of its occupants. It lacks its own entrance from Whitehall, and is entered through the Ripley Building. It is a three storey building in yellow brick with Neoclassical architecture|neo-classicistic interiors. Its rear facade faces directly onto Horse Guards Parade. The architect was Samuel Pepys Cockerell. There are now three ministerial flats in the building. ==  Queen Anne style with French influences. It is now used by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.Foreign and Commonwealth Office staff refer to the building as the OAB (Old Admiralty Building).== Admiralty Arch is linked to the Old Admiralty Building by a bridge and is part of the ceremonial route from Trafalgar Square to Buckingham Palace. It contains further office space currently used by the Cabinet Office.==This is a squat windowless World War II fortress north west of Horse Guards Parade, now covered in ivy. See Military citadels under London for further details.  sea power or rule over the seas, rather than in strict reference to the institution exercising such power. For example, the well-known lines from Kiplings Song of the Dead: If blood be the price of admiralty,Lord God, we ha paid in full!}} List of Lord High Admirals and First Lords of the Admiralty* List of Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty* Lord High Admiral of Scotland* Admiralty administration* St Bonifaces Catholic College The Building*  Bradley, Simon, and  , 2003. ISBN 0-300-09595-3.* C. Hussey, "Admiralty Building, Whitehall", Country Life, 17 and 24 November 1923, pp. 684-692, 718-726.The Office* Daniel A. Baugh, Naval Administration in the Age of Walpole (Pinceton, 1965).* Sir John Barrow, An Autobiographical Memoir of Sir John Barrow, Bart., Late of the Admiralty (London, 1847). * John Ehrman, The Navy in the War of William III: Its State and Direction (Cambridge, 1953).* C. I. Hamilton, The Making of the Modern Admiralty: British Naval Policy-Making 1805-1927 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2011).*  , London, 1984).* C. S. Knighton, Pepys and the Navy (Stroud: Sutton Publishing, 2003). Christopher Lloyd, Mr Barrow of the Admiralty (London, 1970).* Malcolm H. Murfett, The First Sea Lords: From Fisher to Mountbatten (Westport: Praeger, 1995). * Lady Murray, The Making of a Civil Servant: Sir Oswyn Murray, Secretary of the Admiralty 1917-1936 (London, 1940). * N.A.M. Rodger, The Admiralty (Lavenham, 1979)* J.C. Sainty, Admiralty Officials, 1660-1870 (London, 1975)* Sir Charles Walker, Thirty-Six Years at the Admiralty (London, 1933) *  at the Survey of London online