Advanced Encryption StandardAdvanced Encryption Standard (AES) is a specification for the encryption of electronic data. It has been adopted by the Federal government of the United States|U.S. government and is now used worldwide. It supersedes Data Encryption Standard|DES.  The algorithm described by AES is a symmetric-key algorithm, meaning the same key is used for both encrypting and decrypting the data. FIPS PUB Secretary of top secret Security of AES, below). Belgian cryptographers, Joan Daemen and Vincent Rijmen, and submitted by them to the AES selection process.  The name Rijndael (  ) is a play on the names of the two inventors.Strictly speaking, AES is the name of the standard, and the algorithm described is a (restricted) variant of Rijndael. However, in practice the algorithm is also referred to as "AES" (a case of totum pro parte). Substitution permutation software and hardware.  Unlike its predecessor, DES, AES does not use a Feistel network. block size of 128 bits and a key size of 128, 192, or 256 bits, whereas Rijndael can be specified with block and key sizes in any multiple of 32 bits, with a minimum of 128 bits. The blocksize has a maximum of 256 bits, but the keysize has no theoretical maximum. finite field.The AES cipher is specified as a number of repetitions of transformation rounds that convert the input plaintext into the final output of ciphertext. Each round consists of several processing steps, including one that depends on the encryption key. A set of reverse rounds are applied to transform ciphertext back into the original plaintext using the same encryption key.==# KeyExpansion—round keys are derived from the cipher key using Rijndael key schedule|Rijndaels key schedule# Initial Round##  AddRoundKey —each byte of the state is combined with the round key using bitwise xor# Rounds lookup table.##  ShiftRows —a transposition step where each row of the state is shifted cyclically a certain number of steps.##  MixColumns —a mixing operation which operates on the columns of the state, combining the four bytes in each column.##  AddRoundKey # Final Round (no  MixColumns )##  SubBytes ##  ShiftRows ##  AddRoundKey == In the  SubBytes  step, each byte in the matrix is updated using an 8-bit substitution box, the Rijndael S-box. This operation provides the non-linearity in the cipher. The S-box used is derived from the multiplicative inverse over Finite field|GF(2 8 ), known to have good non-linearity properties. To avoid attacks based on simple algebraic properties, the S-box is constructed by combining the inverse function with an invertible affine transformation. The S-box is also chosen to avoid any fixed points (and so is a derangement), and also any opposite fixed points.== The  ShiftRows  step operates on the rows of the state; it cyclically shifts the bytes in each row by a certain Offset (computer science)|offset. For AES, the first row is left unchanged. Each byte of the second row is shifted one to the left. Similarly, the third and fourth rows are shifted by offsets of two and three respectively. For the block of size 128 bits and 192 bits the shifting pattern is the same. In this way, each column of the output state of the  ShiftRows  step is composed of bytes from each column of the input state. (Rijndael variants with a larger block size have slightly different offsets). In the case of the 256-bit block, the first row is unchanged and the shifting for second, third and fourth row is 1 byte, 3 bytes and 4 bytes respectively—this change only applies for the Rijndael cipher when used with a 256-bit block, as AES does not use 256-bit blocks.==  diffusion in the cipher.During this operation, each column is multiplied by the known matrix that for the 128 bit key is:: \begin{bmatrix}2 & 3 & 1 & 1 \\1 & 2 & 3 & 1 \\1 & 1 & 2 & 3 \\3 & 1 & 1 & 2\end{bmatrix}. The multiplication operation is defined as: multiplication by 1 means leaving unchanged, multiplication by 2 means shifting byte to the left and multiplication by 3 means shifting to the left and then performing xor with the initial unshifted value. After shifting, a conditional xor with 0x1B should be performed if the shifted value is larger than 0xFF.In more general sense, each column is treated as a polynomial over GF(2 8 ) and is then multiplied modulo x 4 +1 with a fixed polynomial c(x) = 0x03 · x 3  + x 2  + x + 0x02. The coefficients are displayed in their hexadecimal equivalent of the binary representation of bit polynomials from GF(2) . The  MixColumns  step can also be viewed as a multiplication by a particular MDS matrix in a finite field. This process is described further in the article Rijndael mix columns.==  operation (⊕).]] key using Rijndael key schedule|Rijndaels key schedule; each subkey is the same size as the state. The subkey is added by combining each byte of the state with the corresponding byte of the subkey using bitwise Exclusive or|XOR.==On systems with 32-bit or larger words, it is possible to speed up execution of this cipher by combining   SubBytes  and  ShiftRows  with  MixColumns , and transforming them into a sequence of table lookups. This requires four 256-entry 32-bit tables, which utilizes a total of four kilobytes (4096 bytes) of memory—one kilobyte for each table. A round can now be done with 16 table lookups and 12 32-bit exclusive-or operations, followed by four 32-bit exclusive-or operations in the  AddRoundKey  step. If the resulting four kilobyte table size is too large for a given target platform, the table lookup operation can be performed with a single 256-entry 32-bit (i.e. 1 kilobyte) table by the use of circular rotates.Using a byte-oriented approach, it is possible to combine the  SubBytes ,  ShiftRows , and  MixColumns  steps into a single round operation. Until May 2009, the only successful published attacks against the full AES were side-channel attacks on some specific implementations. The National Security Agency (NSA) reviewed all the AES finalists, including Rijndael, and stated that all of them were secure enough for U.S. Government non-classified data. In June 2003, the U.S. Government announced that AES may be used to protect classified information: The design and strength of all key lengths of the AES algorithm (i.e., 128, 192 and 256) are sufficient to protect classified information up to the SECRET level. TOP SECRET information will require use of either the 192 or 256 key lengths. The implementation of AES in products intended to protect national security systems and/or information must be reviewed and certified by NSA prior to their acquisition and use."   John Kelsey, David Wagner, and Doug Whiting, Improved Cryptanalysis of Rijndael, Fast Software Encryption, 2000 pp213–230   == cryptographic "break" brute force—performing one trial decryption for each key . Thus, an attack against a 256-bit-key AES requiring 2 200  operations (compared to 2 256  possible keys) would be considered a break, even though 2 200  operations would still take far longer than the age of the universe to complete. The largest successful publicly-known brute force attack against any block-cipher encryption has been against a 64-bit RC5 key by distributed.net.   XSL attack on block ciphers.During the AES process, developers of competing algorithms wrote of Rijndael, "...we are concerned about   use...in security-critical applications."    However, at the end of the AES process, Bruce Schneier, a developer of the competing algorithm Twofish, wrote that while he thought successful academic attacks on Rijndael would be developed someday, "I do not believe that anyone will ever discover an attack that will allow someone to read Rijndael traffic." On July 1, 2009, Bruce Schneier blogged  about a related-key attack on the 192-bit and 256-bit versions of AES, discovered by Alex Biryukov and Dmitry Khovratovich,  which exploits AESs somewhat simple key schedule and has a complexity of 2 119 . In December 2009 it was improved to 2 99.5 . This is a follow-up to an attack discovered earlier in 2009 by Alex Biryukov, Dmitry Khovratovich, and Ivica Nikolić, with a complexity of 2 96  for one out of every 2 35  keys.  Another attack was blogged by Bruce Schneier  on July 30, 2009 and released as a preprint  on August 3, 2009. This new attack, by Alex Biryukov, Orr Dunkelman, Nathan Keller, Dmitry Khovratovich, and Adi Shamir, is against AES-256 that uses only two related keys and 2 39  time to recover the complete 256-bit key of a 9-round version, or 2 45  time for a 10-round version with a stronger type of related subkey attack, or 2 70  time for an 11-round version. 256-bit AES uses 14 rounds, so these attacks arent effective against full AES.In November 2009, the first known-key distinguishing attack against a reduced 8-round version of AES-128 was released as a preprint.  This known-key distinguishing attack is an improvement of the rebound or the start-from-the-middle attacks for AES-like permutations, which view two consecutive rounds of permutation as the application of a so-called Super-Sbox. It works on the 8-round version of AES-128, with a time complexity of 2 48 , and a memory complexity of 2 32 .In July 2010 Vincent Rijmen published an ironic paper on "chosen-key-relations-in-the-middle" attacks on AES-128. The first key-recovery attacks on full AES due to Andrey Bogdanov, Dmitry Khovratovich, and Christian Rechberger were published in 2011.  The attack is based on bicliques and is faster than brute force by a factor of about four. The key is recovered from AES-128 in  2^{126.1}  operations. For AES-192 and AES-256,  2^{189.7}  and  2^{254.4}  operations are needed, respectively.== Side channel attack|Side-channel attacks do not attack the underlying cipher and so have nothing to do with its security as described here, but attack implementations of the cipher on systems which inadvertently leak data. There are several such known attacks on certain implementations of AES.In April 2005, Daniel J. Bernstein|D.J. Bernstein announced a cache-timing attack that he used to break a custom server that used OpenSSLs AES encryption.    The attack required over 200 million chosen plaintexts.  The custom server was designed to give out as much timing information as possible (the server reports back the number of machine cycles taken by the encryption operation); however, as Bernstein pointed out, "reducing the precision of the server’s timestamps, or eliminating them from the server’s responses, does not stop the attack: the client simply uses round-trip timings based on its local clock, and compensates for the increased noise by averaging over a larger number of samples."  In October 2005, Dag Arne Osvik, Adi Shamir and Eran Tromer presented a paper demonstrating several cache-timing attacks against AES.  One attack was able to obtain an entire AES key after only 800 operations triggering encryptions, in a total of 65 milliseconds. This attack requires the attacker to be able to run programs on the same system or platform that is performing AES.In December 2009 an attack on some hardware implementations was published that used differential fault analysis and allows recovery of key with complexity of  2^{32} . In November 2010 Endre Bangerter, David Gullasch and Stephan Krenn published a paper which described a practical approach to a "near real time" recovery of secret keys from AES-128 without the need for either cipher text or plaintext. The approach also works on AES-128 implementations that use compression tables, such as OpenSSL.   Like some earlier attacks this one requires the ability to run arbitrary code on the system performing the AES encryption.   Cryptographic Module Validation Program (CMVP) is operated jointly by the United States Governments National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Computer Security Division and the Communications Security Establishment (CSE) of the Government of Canada. The use of validated cryptographic modules is not required by the United States Government for unclassified uses of cryptography. The Government of Canada also recommends the use of FIPS 140 validated cryptographic modules in unclassified applications of its departments.Although NIST publication 197 ("FIPS 197") is the unique document that covers the AES algorithm, vendors typically approach the CMVP under FIPS 140 and ask to have several algorithms (such as Triple DES|Triple&nbsp;DES or SHA1) validated at the same time. Therefore, it is rare to find cryptographic modules that are uniquely FIPS 197 validated and NIST itself does not generally take the time to list FIPS 197 validated modules separately on its public web site. Instead, FIPS 197 validation is typically just listed as an "FIPS approved: AES" notation (with a specific FIPS 197 certificate number) in the current list of FIPS 140 validated cryptographic modules.The Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program (CAVP)  allows for independent validation of the correct implementation of the AES algorithm at a reasonable cost . Successful validation results in being listed on the NIST validations page. This testing is a pre-requisite for the FIPS 140-2 module validation described below.FIPS 140-2 validation is challenging to achieve both technically and fiscally.    There is a standardized battery of tests as well as an element of source code review that must be passed over a period of a few weeks. The cost to perform these tests through an approved laboratory can be significant (e.g., well over $30,000 US)  and does not include the time it takes to write, test, document and prepare a module for validation. After validation, modules must be re-submitted and re-evaluated if they are changed in any way. This can vary from simple paperwork updates if the security functionality did not change to a more substantial set of re-testing if the security functionality was impacted by the change.Test vectors are a set of known ciphers for a given input and key.  NIST distributes the reference of AES test vectors as  .High speed and low RAM requirements were criteria of the AES selection process. Thus AES performs well on a wide variety of hardware, from 8-bit smartcards to high-performance computers.On a Pentium Pro, AES encryption requires 18 clock cycles / byte,   equivalent to a throughput of about 11 MiB/s for a 200&nbsp;MHz processor. On a Pentium M 1.7&nbsp;GHz throughput is about 60 MiB/s. Advanced Encryption Standard process*AES implementations Intel and AMD microprocessors*Rijndael key schedule*Rijndael S-box*Data Encryption Standard (DES)*Disk encryption*Multiscale Electrophysiology Format (MEF)*Triple DES Whirlpool - hash function created by Vincent Rijmen and Paulo S. L. M. Barreto  tags-->  Nicolas Courtois, Josef Pieprzyk, "Cryptanalysis of Block Ciphers with Overdefined Systems of Equations". pp267–287, ASIACRYPT 2002.* Joan Daemen, Vincent Rijmen, "The Design of Rijndael: AES - The Advanced Encryption Standard." Springer, 2002. ISBN 3-540-42580-2.* Christof Paar, Jan Pelzl,  , Chapter 4 of "Understanding Cryptography, A Textbook for Students and Practitioners". (companion web site contains online lectures on AES), Springer, 2009.   PDF file)*  *  *  *  , a layman introduction to cryptography and AES.*  *   PDF file)*