AediculaLibrary with aediculae]] , with rows of figures in aedicular or tabernacle frames above the door, and two above the crenellations]] In religion in ancient Rome, an aedicula (plural aediculae) is a small shrine. The word aedicula is the diminutive of the Latin aedes (Roman)|aedes, a temple building or house. Roman deities protecting the house and the family household gods. The Penates were originally patron gods (really genius (mythology)|genii) of the storeroom, later becoming household gods guarding the entire house.Other aediculae were small shrines within larger temples, usually set on a base, surmounted by a pediment and surrounded by columns. In Roman architecture the aedicula has this representative function in the society. They are installed in public buildings like the Triumphal arch, City gate, or Thermes. The Celsus Library in Ephesus (2. c. AD) is a good example.  From the 4th century Christianization of the Roman Empire onwards such shrines, or the framework enclosing them, are often called by the Biblical term tabernacle, which becomes extended to any elaborated framework for a niche, window or picture.    ciborium over an altar.In Late Gothic settings, altarpieces and devotional images were customarily crowned with gables and canopies supported by clustered-column piers, echoing in small the architecture of Gothic churches.  Painted ædicules frame figures from sacred history in initial letters of Illuminated manuscripts.  in Florence.  These are of the type known as "inginocchiata", "kneeling" on two brackets.]] Classicizing architectonic structure and decor allantica, in the "ancient   mode", became a fashionable way to frame a painted or bas-relief portrait, or protect an expensive and precious mirror   during the High Renaissance; Italian precedents were imitated in France, then in Spain, England and Germany during the later 16th century. Aedicular door surrounds that are architecturally treated, with pilasters or columns flanking the doorway and an entablature even with a pediment over it came into use with the 16th century.  In the neo-Palladian revival in Britain, architectonic aedicular or tabernacle frames, carved and gilded. are favourite schemes for English Palladian mirror frames of the late 1720s through the 1740s, by such designers as William Kent. Greek religion, but their use was strictly religious.Aediculae exist today in Roman cemeteries as a part of funeral architecture.Presently the most famous Aedicule is situated inside the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem. Pilaster*Portico *Adkins, Lesley & Adkins, Roy A. (1996). Dictionary of Roman Religion. Facts on File, inc. ISBN 0-8160-3005-7.*     ´