Aegean civilizationsAegean civilization is a general term for the  , the Cyclades and the Greek mainland. Crete is associated with the Minoan civilization from the Early Bronze Age. The Cyclades converge with the mainland during the Early Helladic ("Minyans|Minyan") period and with Crete in the Middle Minoan period. From ca. 1450 (Late Helladic, Late Minoan), the Greek Mycenaean civilization spreads to Crete.== * Early Helladic EH 2800-2100 BCE* Middle Helladic MH 2100-1500 BCE* Late Helladic LH 1500-1100 BCE== *Early Minoan EM 3650-2160 BCE*Middle Minoan MM 2160-1600 BCE*Late Minoan LM 1600-1170 BCE== *Early Cycladic 3300-2000 BCE*Kastri = EH II-EH III (ca. 2500-2100) BCE*Convergence with MM from ca. 2000 BCE Melian obsidian Greek mainland. masts and Akrotiri on the island of Thera (Santorini) preserved by the ash fall from the volcanic eruption which destroyed the town there.Discoveries, later in the 20th century, of sunken trading vessels such as those at Uluburun and Cape Gelidonya off the south coast of Turkey have brought forth an enormous amount of new information about that culture.For details of monumental evidence the articles on Crete, Mycenae, Tiryns, Troad, Cyprus, etc., must be consulted. The most representative site explored up to now is Knossos (see Crete) which has yielded not only the most various but the most continuous evidence from the Neolithic age to the twilight of classical civilization. Next in importance come Hissarlik, Mycenae, Phaestus, Hagia Triada, Tiryns, Phylakope, Palaikastro and Gournia.== graves and Greek mainland intaglios and frescoes. From the sources and from inlay-work we have also representations of palaces and houses.*Structural Decoration; Architectural features, such as  an towns of Gla and Midea (Argolid)|Midea.  vessels of Funerary furniture, for example, coffins in painted terracotta. stone or ivory, cast or beaten in metals (gold, silver, copper and bronze), or modelled in clay, faience, Wheatpaste|paste, etc. Very little trace has yet been found of large free-standing sculpture, but many examples exist of sculptors smaller work. Vases of all kinds, carved in marble or other stones, cast or beaten in metals or fashioned in clay, the latter in enormous number and variety, richly ornamented with coloured schemes, and sometimes bearing moulded decoration. Examples of painting on stone, opaque and transparent. Engraved objects in great number for example, ring-bezels and engraved gem|gems; and an immense quantity of clay impressions, taken from these. armour from Dendra. Dictaean Cavern of Crete. No textiles have survived other than impressions in clay.*Written documents; for example, clay tablets and discs (so far in Crete only), but nothing of more perishable nature, such as skin, papyrus, etc.; engraved gems and gem impressions; legends written with pigment on pottery (rare); characters incised on stone or pottery. These show a number of systems of script employing either ideograms or syllabograms (see Linear B). chamber or tholos kind, in which the dead were laid, together with various objects of use and luxury, without cremation, and in either coffins or loculi or simple wrappings.*Public works; Such as paved and stepped roadways, bridges, systems of drainage, etc.==*Monuments and records of other contemporary civilizations; for example, representations of alien peoples in Egyptian frescoes; imitation of Aegean fabrics and style in non-Aegean lands; allusions to Mediterranean peoples in Egyptian, Semitic or Babylonian records.*Literary traditions of subsequent civilizations; Especially the Hellenic; such as, for example,, those embodied in the Homeric poems, the legends concerning Crete, Mycenae, etc.; statements as to the origin of deity|gods, cults and so forth, transmitted to us by Hellenic antiquarians such as Strabo, Pausanias (geographer)|Pausanias, Diodorus Siculus, etc. linguistic and even physical survivals to be considered. prehistoric civilization classical Greeks. gate with Hellenic civilization. It was not until Schliemann exposed the contents of the graves which lay just inside the gate, that scholars recognized the advanced stage of art which prehistoric dwellers in the Mycenaean citadel had attained. Thebes as Neuchatel since about 1840, the provenience (i.e. source or origin) being in the one case Phylakope in Milos|Melos, in the other Kefallinia|Cephalonia. German Archaeology|archaeologist Athens at siliceous volcanic Santorin (Thera), by representatives of the French School at Athens, much pottery of a class now known immediately to precede the typical late Aegean ware, and many stone and metal objects, were found. These were dated by the geologist Ferdinand A. Fouqué, somewhat arbitrarily, to 2000 B.C., by consideration of the superincumbent eruptive stratum.Meanwhile, in 1868, tombs at Ialysus in Rhodes had yielded to Alfred Biliotti many fine painted vases of styles which were called later the third and fourth "Mycenaean"; but these, bought by John Ruskin, and presented to the British Museum, excited less attention than they deserved, being supposed to be of some local Asiatic fabric of uncertain date. Nor was a connection immediately detected between them and the objects found four years later in a tomb at Menidi in Attica and a rock-cut "bee-hive" grave near the Argive Heraeum. excavations at Hissarlik in the Troad did not excite surprise. But the "Burnt City" of his second stratum, revealed in 1873, with its fortifications and vases, and a hoard of gold, silver and bronze objects, which the discoverer connected with it, began to arouse a curiosity which was destined presently to spread far outside the narrow circle of scholars. As soon as Schliemann came on the Mycenae graves three years later, light poured from all sides on the prehistoric period of Greece. It was recognized that the character of both the fabric and the decoration of the Mycenaean objects was not that of any well-known art. A wide range in space was proved by the identification of the Inselsteine and the Ialysus vases with the new style, and a wide range in time by collation of the earlier Theraean and Hissarlik discoveries. A relationship between objects of art described by Homer and the Mycenaean treasure was generally allowed, and a correct opinion prevailed that, while certainly posterior, the civilization of the Iliad was reminiscent of the Mycenaean.Schliemann got to work again at Hissarlik in 1878, and greatly increased our knowledge of the lower strata, but did not recognize the Aegean remains in his "Lydian" city of the sixth stratum. These were not to be fully revealed until Dr. Wilhelm Dorpfeld, who had become Schliemanns assistant in 1879, resumed the work at Hissarlik in 1892 after the first explorers death. But by laying bare in 1884 the upper stratum of remains on the rock of Tiryns, Schliemann made a contribution to our knowledge of prehistoric domestic life which was amplified two years later by Christos Tsountass discovery of the palace at Mycenae. Schliemanns work at Tiryns was not resumed till 1905, when it was proved, as had long been suspected, that an earlier palace underlies the one he had exposed. National Museum at Athens. In that year tholos-tombs, most already pillaged but retaining some of their furniture, were excavated at Arkina and Eleusis in Attica, at Dimini near Volos in Thessaly, at Kampos on the west of Mount Taygetus, and at Maskarata in Kefallinia|Cephalonia. The richest grave of all was explored at Vaphio in Laconia in 1889, and yielded, besides many gems and miscellaneous goldsmiths work, two golden goblets chased with scenes of bull-hunting, and certain broken vases painted in a large bold style which remained an enigma until the excavation of Knossos. Argive Heraeum Nauplia in Thebes and Thessalian Larissa. American explorations of the Argive Heraeum, concluded in 1895, also failed to prove that site to have been important in the prehistoric time, though, as was to be expected from its neighbourhood to Mycenae itself, there were traces of occupation in the later Aegean periods. British British School at Athens in 1896, yielded at Phylakope remains of all the Aegean periods, except the Neolithic. English archaeological expeditions, sent subsequently into north-western Anatolia, have never failed to bring back ceramic specimens of Aegean appearance from the valleys of the Rhyndncus, Sangarius and Halys. Kahun in Tell el-Amarna, Philistia by the Palestine Fund. Cadiz and from Zaragoza, Spain|Saragossa. epigraphic monuments such as the famous law of Gortyna (also called Gortyn). But the first undoubted Aegean remains reported from it were a few objects extracted from Cnossus by Minos Kalokhairinos of Candia in 1878. These were followed by certain discoveries made in the S. plain Messara by F. Halbherr. Unsuccessful attempts at Cnossus were made by both W. J. Stillman and H. Schliemann, and A. J. Evans, coming on the scene in 1893, travelled in succeeding years about the island picking up trifles of unconsidered evidence, which gradually convinced him that greater things would eventually be found. He obtained enough to enable him to forecast the discovery of written characters, till then not suspected in Aegean civilization. The revolution of 1897-98 opened the door to wider knowledge, and much exploration has ensued, for which see Crete. Macedonian and Thracian coasts. Offshoots are found in the western Mediterranean area, in Sicily, Italy, Sardinia and Spain, and in the eastern Mediterranean area in Syria and Egypt. Regarding the Cyrenaica, we are still insufficiently informed. History of discovery and distribution of the remains of Aegean civilization* Mycenaean Greece* Prehistoric Balkans *  : chronology, history, bibliography* : Articles, site-reports and bibliography database concerning the Aegean, Balkans and Western Anatolia